# IMS Bearings Data

The data was generated by the NSF I/UCR Center for Intelligent Maintenance Systems [IMS](www.imscenter.net) with support from Rexnord Corp. in Milwaukee, WI.

### When will bearing fail? - 

Prognostics Center of Excellence Data Set Repository 
[NASA](https://www.nasa.gov/intelligent-systems-division/discovery-and-systems-health/pcoe/pcoe-data-set-repository/)


### Academic Citation

#### Reference Paper:
- Hai Qiu, Jay Lee, Jing Lin.
- “Wavelet Filter-based Weak Signature Detection Method and its Application on Roller Bearing Prognostics.”
- Journal of Sound and Vibration 289 (2006) 1066-1090


### Tests

The data collected included accelerometer data gathered from teh test rig for the bearings mounted on a chassis. 

- Each data set descibes a test-to-failure experiment.
- Each data set consists of individual files that are 1-second vibration signal snapshots recorded at specific intervals.
- Each file consists of 20,480 points with the sampling rate set at 20 kHz.
- The filename indicates when the data was collected in the format YY.MM.DD.HH.MM.SS 
- Each record (row) in the data file is a data point.
- Each column in the data file refers to the channels for the bearings accel data.


#### Test Set #1 

No. of Channels: 8

Channel Arrangement: 
 1. Bearing 1 – Ch 1 & 2
 2. Bearing 2 – Ch 3 & 4
 3. Bearing 3 – Ch 5 & 6
 4. Bearing 4 – Ch 7 & 8

**RESULT** At the end of the test-to-failure experiment, inner race defect occurred in **bearing 3** and roller element defect in **bearing 4**.


#### Test Set #2 

No. of Channels: 4

Channel Arrangement: 

1. Bearing 1 – Ch 1
2. Bearing 2 – Ch 2
3. Bearing 3 – Ch 3
4. Bearing 4 – Ch 4
   
File Recording Interval: Every 10 minutes

**RESULT**  At the end of the test-to-failure experiment, outer race failure occurred in **bearing 1**.


#### Test Set #3

No. of Channels: 4

Channel Arrangement: 

1. Bearing 1 – Ch 1
2. Bearing 2 – Ch 2
3. Bearing 3 – Ch 3
4. Bearing 4 – Ch 4

**RESULT**: At the end of the test-to-failure experiment, outer race failure occurred in **bearing 3**.





























